1.	A data engineer is configuring an AWS Glue job to read data from an Amazon S3 bucket. The data engineer has set up the necessary AWS Glue connection details and an associated IAM role. However, when the data engineer attempts to run the AWS Glue job, the data engineer receives an error message that indicates that there are problems with the Amazon S3 VPC gateway endpoint. The data engineer must resolve the error and connect the AWS Glue job to the S3 bucket. 
Which solution will meet this requirement? 

A) Update the AWS Glue security group to allow inbound traffic from the Amazon S3 VPC gateway endpoint.
B) Configure an S3 bucket policy to explicitly grant the AWS Glue job permissions to access the S3 bucket.
C) Review the AWS Glue job code to ensure that the AWS Glue connection details include a fully qualified domain name.
D) Verify that the VPC's route table includes inbound and outbound routes for the Amazon S3 VPC gateway endpoint. 

Ans: D

2.	A retail company has a customer data hub in an Amazon S3 bucket. Employees from many countries use the data hub to support company-wide analytics. A governance team must ensure that the company's data analysts can access data only for customers who are within the same country as the analysts. 
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational effort? 
A) Create a separate table for each country's customer data. Provide access to each analyst based on the country that the analyst serves.
B) Register the S3 bucket as a data lake location in AWS Lake Formation. Use the Lake Formation row-level security features to enforce the company's access policies. 
C) Move the data to AWS Regions that are close to the countries where the customers are. Provide access to each analyst based on the country that the analyst serves.
D) Load the data into Amazon Redshift. Create a view for each country. Create separate IAM roles for each country to provide access to data from each country. Assign the appropriate roles to the analysts. 

Ans: B

3.	A media company wants to improve a system that recommends media content to customer based on user behavior and preferences. To improve the recommendation system, the company needs to incorporate insights from third-party datasets into the company's existing analytics platform.
The company wants to minimize the effort and time required to incorporate third-party datasets.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) Use API calls to access and integrate third-party datasets from AWS Data Exchange. 
B) Use API calls to access and integrate third-party datasets from AWS DataSync. 
C) Use Amazon Kinesis Data Streams to access and integrate third-party datasets from AWS CodeCommit repositories.
D) Use Amazon Kinesis Data Streams to access and integrate third-party datasets from Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR). 

Ans: A

4.	A financial company wants to implement a data mesh. The data mesh must support centralized data governance, data analysis, and data access control. The company has decided to use AWS Glue for data catalogs and extract, transform, and load (ETL) operations.
Which combination of AWS services will implement a data mesh? (Choose two.)
A) Use Amazon Aurora for data storage. Use an Amazon Redshift provisioned cluster for data analysis.
B) Use Amazon S3 for data storage. Use Amazon Athena for data analysis.
C) Use AWS Glue DataBrew for centralized data governance and access control. 
D) Use Amazon RDS for data storage. Use Amazon EMR for data analysis.
E) Use AWS Lake Formation for centralized data governance and access control. 
Ans: B, E

5.	A data engineer maintains custom Python scripts that perform a data formatting process that many AWS Lambda functions use. When the data engineer needs to modify the Python scripts, the data engineer must manually update all the Lambda functions.
The data engineer requires a less manual way to update the Lambda functions. Which solution will meet this requirement? 
A) Store a pointer to the custom Python scripts in the execution context object in a shared Amazon S3 bucket.
B) Package the custom Python scripts into Lambda layers. Apply the Lambda layers to the Lambda functions. 
C) Store a pointer to the custom Python scripts in environment variables in a shared Amazon S3 bucket. 
D) Assign the same alias to each Lambda function. Call reach Lambda function by specifying the function's alias. 
Ans: B

6.	A company created an extract, transform, and load (ETL) data pipeline in AWS Glue. A data engineer must crawl a table that is in Microsoft SQL Server. The data engineer needs to extract, transform, and load the output of the crawl to an Amazon S3 bucket. The data engineer also must orchestrate the data pipeline.
Which AWS service or feature will meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively?
A) AWS Step Functions
B) AWS Glue workflows
C) AWS Glue Studio
D) Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (Amazon MWAA) 
Ans: B

7.	 A financial services company stores financial data in Amazon Redshift. A data engineer wants to run real-time queries on the financial data to support a web- based trading application. The data engineer wants to run the queries from within the trading application. 
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? 
A) Establish WebSocket connections to Amazon Redshift.
B) Use the Amazon Redshift Data API.
C) Set up Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) connections to Amazon Redshift.
D) Store frequently accessed data in Amazon S3. Use Amazon S3 Select to run the queries. 
Ans: B

8.	A company uses Amazon Athena for one-time queries against data that is in Amazon S3. The company has several use cases. The company must implement permission controls to separate query processes and access to query history among users, teams, and applications that are in the same AWS account.
Which solution will meet these requirements?
A) Create an S3 bucket for each use case. Create an S3 bucket policy that grants permissions to appropriate individual IAM users. Apply the S3 bucket policy to the S3 bucket.
B) Create an Athena workgroup for each use case. Apply tags to the workgroup. Create an IAM policy that uses the tags to apply appropriate permissions to the workgroup. 
C) Create an IAM role for each use case. Assign appropriate permissions to the role for each use case. Associate the role with Athena. 
D) Create an AWS Glue Data Catalog resource policy that grants permissions to appropriate individual IAM users for each use case. Apply the resource policy to the specific tables that Athena uses. 
Ans: B

9.	A data engineer needs to schedule a workflow that runs a set of AWS Glue jobs every day. The data engineer does not require the Glue jobs to run or finish at a specific time. Which solution will run the Glue jobs in the MOST cost-effective way? 
A)	Choose the FLEX execution class in the Glue job properties.
B)	Use the Spot Instance type in Glue job properties.
C)	Choose the STANDARD execution class in the Glue job properties.
D)	Choose the latest version in the GlueVersion field in the Glue job properties. 
Ans: A

10.	A data engineer needs to create an AWS Lambda function that converts the format of data from .csv to Apache Parquet. The Lambda function must run only if a user uploads a .csv file to an Amazon S3 bucket.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) Create an S3 event notification that has an event type of s3:ObjectCreated:*. Use a filter rule to generate notifications only when the suffix includes .csv. Set the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the Lambda function as the destination for the event notification.
B) Create an S3 event notification that has an event type of s3:ObjectTagging:* for objects that have a tag set to .csv. Set the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the Lambda function as the destination for the event notification. 
C) Create an S3 event notification that has an event type of s3:*. Use a filter rule to generate notifications only when the suffix includes .csv. Set the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the Lambda function as the destination for the event notification. 
D) Create an S3 event notification that has an event type of s3:ObjectCreated:*. Use a filter rule to generate notifications only when the suffix includes .csv. Set an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic as the destination for the event notification. Subscribe the Lambda function to the SNS topic. 
Ans: A

11.	A data engineer needs Amazon Athena queries to finish faster. The data engineer notices that all the files the Athena queries use are currently stored in uncompressed .csv format. The data engineer also notices that users perform most queries by selecting a specific column.
Which solution will MOST speed up the Athena query performance?
A) Change the data format from .csv to JSON format. Apply Snappy compression.
B) Compress the .csv files by using Snappy compression.
C) Change the data format from .csv to Apache Parquet. Apply Snappy compression. 
D) Compress the .csv files by using gzip compression. 
Ans: C

12.	A manufacturing company collects sensor data from its factory floor to monitor and enhance operational efficiency. The company uses Amazon Kinesis Data Streams to publish the data that the sensors collect to a data stream. Then Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose writes the data to an Amazon S3 bucket.
The company needs to display a real-time view of operational efficiency on a large screen in the manufacturing facility.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LOWEST latency?
A) Use Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink (previously known as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics) to process the sensor data. Use a connector for Apache Flink to write data to an Amazon Timestream database. Use the Timestream database as a source to create a Grafana dashboard. 
B) Configure the S3 bucket to send a notification to an AWS Lambda function when any new object is created. Use the Lambda function to publish the data to Amazon Aurora. Use Aurora as a source to create an Amazon QuickSight dashboard.
C) Use Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink (previously known as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics) to process the sensor data. Create a new Data Firehose delivery stream to publish data directly to an Amazon Timestream database. Use the Timestream database as a source to create an Amazon QuickSight dashboard.
D) Use AWS Glue bookmarks to read sensor data from the S3 bucket in real time. Publish the data to an Amazon Timestream database. Use the Timestream database as a source to create a Grafana dashboard. 
Ans: A

13.	A company stores daily records of the financial performance of investment portfolios in .csv format in an Amazon S3 bucket. A data engineer uses AWS Glue crawlers to crawl the S3 data.
The data engineer must make the S3 data accessible daily in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.
Which solution will meet these requirements?
A) Create an IAM role that includes the AmazonS3FullAccess policy. Associate the role with the crawler. Specify the S3 bucket path of the source data as the crawler's data store. Create a daily schedule to run the crawler. Configure the output destination to a new path in the existing S3 bucket. 
B) Create an IAM role that includes the AWSGlueServiceRole policy. Associate the role with the crawler. Specify the S3 bucket path of the source data as the crawler's data store. Create a daily schedule to run the crawler. Specify a database name for the output.
C) Create an IAM role that includes the AmazonS3FullAccess policy. Associate the role with the crawler. Specify the S3 bucket path of the source data as the crawler's data store. Allocate data processing units (DPUs) to run the crawler every day. Specify a database name for the output. 
D) Create an IAM role that includes the AWSGlueServiceRole policy. Associate the role with the crawler. Specify the S3 bucket path of the source data as the crawler's data store. Allocate data processing units (DPUs) to run the crawler every day. Configure the output destination to a new path in the existing S3 bucket. 
Ans: B

14.	A company loads transaction data for each day into Amazon Redshift tables at the end of each day. The company wants to have the ability to track which tables have been loaded and which tables still need to be loaded.
A data engineer wants to store the load statuses of Redshift tables in an Amazon DynamoDB table. The data engineer creates an AWS Lambda function to publish the details of the load statuses to DynamoDB.
How should the data engineer invoke the Lambda function to write load statuses to the DynamoDB table?
A) Use a second Lambda function to invoke the first Lambda function based on Amazon CloudWatch events.
B) Use the Amazon Redshift Data API to publish an event to Amazon EventBridge. Configure an EventBridge rule to invoke the Lambda function. 
C) Use the Amazon Redshift Data API to publish a message to an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue. Configure the SQS queue to invoke the Lambda function.
D) Use a second Lambda function to invoke the first Lambda function based on AWS CloudTrail events. 
Ans: B

15.	A data engineer needs to securely transfer 5 TB of data from an on-premises data center to an Amazon S3 bucket. Approximately 5% of the data changes every day. Updates to the data need to be regularly proliferated to the S3 bucket. The data includes files that are in multiple formats. The data engineer needs to automate the transfer process and must schedule the process to run periodically.
Which AWS service should the data engineer use to transfer the data in the MOST operationally efficient way?
A) AWS DataSync
B) AWS Glue
C) AWS Direct Connect
D) Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration 
Ans: A

16.	A company uses an on-premises Microsoft SQL Server database to store financial transaction data. The company migrates the transaction data from the on-premises database to AWS at the end of each month. The company has noticed that the cost to migrate data from the on-premises database to an Amazon RDS for SQL Server database has increased recently.
The company requires a cost-effective solution to migrate the data to AWS. The solution must cause minimal downtown for the applications that access the database.
Which AWS service should the company use to meet these requirements?
A) AWS Lambda
B) AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS) 
C) AWS Direct Connect
D) AWS DataSync  
Ans: B

17.	A data engineer is building a data pipeline on AWS by using AWS Glue extract, transform, and load (ETL) jobs. The data engineer needs to process data from Amazon RDS and MongoDB, perform transformations, and load the transformed data into Amazon Redshift for analytics. The data updates must occur every hour.
Which combination of tasks will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? (Choose two.)
A) Configure AWS Glue triggers to run the ETL jobs every hour. 
B) Use AWS Glue DataBrew to clean and prepare the data for analytics. 
C) Use AWS Lambda functions to schedule and run the ETL jobs every hour.  
D) Use AWS Glue connections to establish connectivity between the data sources and Amazon Redshift.
E) Use the Redshift Data API to load transformed data into Amazon Redshift. 
Ans: A, D

18.	A company uses an Amazon Redshift cluster that runs on RA3 nodes. The company wants to scale read and write capacity to meet demand. A data engineer needs to identify a solution that will turn on concurrency scaling.
Which solution will meet this requirement?
A) Turn on concurrency scaling in workload management (WLM) for Redshift Serverless workgroups.
B) Turn on concurrency scaling at the workload management (WLM) queue level in the Redshift cluster.
C) Turn on concurrency scaling in the settings during the creation of any new Redshift cluster. 
D) Turn on concurrency scaling for the daily usage quota for the Redshift cluster. 
Ans: B

19.	. A data engineer must orchestrate a series of Amazon Athena queries that will run every day. Each query can run for more than 15 minutes.
Which combination of steps will meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively? (Choose two.)
A) Use an AWS Lambda function and the Athena Boto3 client start_query_execution API call to invoke the Athena queries programmatically.
B) Create an AWS Step Functions workflow and add two states. Add the first state before the Lambda function. Configure the second state as a Wait state to periodically check whether the Athena query has finished using the Athena Boto3 get_query_execution API call. Configure the workflow to invoke the next query when the current query has finished running. 
C) Use an AWS Glue Python shell job and the Athena Boto3 client start_query_execution API call to invoke the Athena queries programmatically.
D) Use an AWS Glue Python shell script to run a sleep timer that checks every 5 minutes to determine whether the current Athena query has finished running successfully. Configure the Python shell script to invoke the next query when the current query has finished running.  
E) Use Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (Amazon MWAA) to orchestrate the Athena queries in AWS Batch. 
Ans: A, B

20.	A company is migrating on-premises workloads to AWS. The company wants to reduce overall operational overhead. The company also wants to explore serverless options.
The company's current workloads use Apache Pig, Apache Oozie, Apache Spark, Apache Hbase, and Apache Flink. The on-premises workloads process petabytes of data in seconds. The company must maintain similar or better performance after the migration to AWS.
Which extract, transform, and load (ETL) service will meet these requirements?
A) AWS Glue
B) Amazon EMR
C) AWS Lambda
D) Amazon Redshift 
Ans: B

21.	A data engineer must use AWS services to ingest a dataset into an Amazon S3 data lake. The data engineer profiles the dataset and discovers that the dataset contains personally identifiable information (PII). The data engineer must implement a solution to profile the dataset and obfuscate the PII.
Which solution will meet this requirement with the LEAST operational effort?
A) Use an Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream to process the dataset. Create an AWS Lambda transform function to identify the PII. Use an AWS SDK to obfuscate the PII. Set the S3 data lake as the target for the delivery stream.
B) Use the Detect PII transform in AWS Glue Studio to identify the PII. Obfuscate the PII. Use an AWS Step Functions state machine to orchestrate a data pipeline to ingest the data into the S3 data lake. 
C) Use the Detect PII transform in AWS Glue Studio to identify the PII. Create a rule in AWS Glue Data Quality to obfuscate the PII. Use an AWS Step Functions state machine to orchestrate a data pipeline to ingest the data into the S3 data lake.
D) Ingest the dataset into Amazon DynamoDB. Create an AWS Lambda function to identify and obfuscate the PII in the DynamoDB table and to transform the data. Use the same Lambda function to ingest the data into the S3 data lake. 
Ans: C

22.	A company maintains multiple extract, transform, and load (ETL) workflows that ingest data from the company's operational databases into an Amazon S3 based data lake. The ETL workflows use AWS Glue and Amazon EMR to process data.
The company wants to improve the existing architecture to provide automated orchestration and to require minimal manual effort.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) AWS Glue workflows
B) AWS Step Functions tasks
C) AWS Lambda functions 
D) Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (Amazon MWAA) workflows 
Ans: B

23.	A company currently stores all of its data in Amazon S3 by using the S3 Standard storage class.
A data engineer examined data access patterns to identify trends. During the first 6 months, most data files are accessed several times each day. Between 6 months and 2 years, most data files are accessed once or twice each month. After 2 years, data files are accessed only once or twice each year.
The data engineer needs to use an S3 Lifecycle policy to develop new data storage rules. The new storage solution must continue to provide high availability.
Which solution will meet these requirements in the MOST cost-effective way?
A) Transition objects to S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA) after 6 months. Transfer objects to S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval after 2 years.
B) Transition objects to S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA) after 6 months. Transfer objects to S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval after 2 years.
C) Transition objects to S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA) after 6 months. Transfer objects to S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 2 years.
D) Transition objects to S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA) after 6 months. Transfer objects to S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 2 years. 
Ans: C

24.	A company maintains an Amazon Redshift provisioned cluster that the company uses for extract, transform, and load (ETL) operations to support critical analysis tasks. A sales team within the company maintains a Redshift cluster that the sales team uses for business intelligence (BI) tasks.
The sales team recently requested access to the data that is in the ETL Redshift cluster so the team can perform weekly summary analysis tasks. The sales team needs to join data from the ETL cluster with data that is in the sales team's BI cluster.
The company needs a solution that will share the ETL cluster data with the sales team without interrupting the critical analysis tasks. The solution must minimize usage of the computing resources of the ETL cluster.
Which solution will meet these requirements?
A) Set up the sales team BI cluster as a consumer of the ETL cluster by using Redshift data sharing.
B) Create materialized views based on the sales team's requirements. Grant the sales team direct access to the ETL cluster. 
C) Create database views based on the sales team's requirements. Grant the sales team direct access to the ETL cluster.
D) Unload a copy of the data from the ETL cluster to an Amazon S3 bucket every week. Create an Amazon Redshift Spectrum table based on the content of the ETL cluster. 
Ans: A

25.	A data engineer needs to join data from multiple sources to perform a one-time analysis job. The data is stored in Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift, and Amazon S3.
Which solution will meet this requirement MOST cost-effectively?
A) Use an Amazon EMR provisioned cluster to read from all sources. Use Apache Spark to join the data and perform the analysis.
B) Copy the data from DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, and Amazon Redshift into Amazon S3. Run Amazon Athena queries directly on the S3 files. 
C) Use Amazon Athena Federated Query to join the data from all data sources. 
D) Use Redshift Spectrum to query data from DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, and Amazon S3 directly from Redshift. 
ans: C

26.	A company is planning to use a provisioned Amazon EMR cluster that runs Apache Spark jobs to perform big data analysis. The company requires high reliability. A big data team must follow best practices for running cost-optimized and long-running workloads on Amazon EMR. The team must find a solution that will maintain the company's current level of performance.
Which combination of resources will meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively? (Choose two.)
A) Use Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) as a persistent data store. 
B) Use Amazon S3 as a persistent data store.
C) Use x86-based instances for core nodes and task nodes.
D) Use Graviton instances for core nodes and task nodes. 
E) Use Spot Instances for all primary nodes. 
Ans: B, D

27.	A company wants to implement real-time analytics capabilities. The company wants to use Amazon Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon Redshift to ingest and process streaming data at the rate of several gigabytes per second. The company wants to derive near real-time insights by using existing business intelligence (BI) and analytics tools.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) Use Kinesis Data Streams to stage data in Amazon S3. Use the COPY command to load data from Amazon S3 directly into Amazon Redshift to make the data immediately available for real- time analysis.
B) Access the data from Kinesis Data Streams by using SQL queries. Create materialized views directly on top of the stream. Refresh the materialized views regularly to query the most recent stream data. 
C) Create an external schema in Amazon Redshift to map the data from Kinesis Data Streams to an Amazon Redshift object. Create a materialized view to read data from the stream. Set the materialized view to auto refresh.
D) Connect Kinesis Data Streams to Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose. Use Kinesis Data Firehose to stage the data in Amazon S3. Use the COPY command to load the data from Amazon S3 to a table in Amazon Redshift. 
Ans: D

28.	A company uses an Amazon QuickSight dashboard to monitor usage of one of the company's applications. The company uses AWS Glue jobs to process data for the dashboard. The company stores the data in a single Amazon S3 bucket. The company adds new data every day.
A data engineer discovers that dashboard queries are becoming slower over time. The data engineer determines that the root cause of the slowing queries is long-running AWS Glue jobs.
Which actions should the data engineer take to improve the performance of the AWS Glue jobs? (Choose two.)
A) Partition the data that is in the S3 bucket. Organize the data by year, month, and day.
B) Increase the AWS Glue instance size by scaling up the worker type.
C) Convert the AWS Glue schema to the DynamicFrame schema class.
D) Adjust AWS Glue job scheduling frequency so the jobs run half as many times each day.
E) Modify the IAM role that grants access to AWS glue to grant access to all S3 features. 
Ans: A, B

29.	A data engineer needs to use AWS Step Functions to design an orchestration workflow. The workflow must parallel process a large collection of data files and apply a specific transformation to each file.
Which Step Functions state should the data engineer use to meet these requirements?
A) Parallel state
B) Choice state
C) Map state
D) Wait state 
Ans: C

30.	A company is migrating a legacy application to an Amazon S3 based data lake. A data engineer reviewed data that is associated with the legacy application. The data engineer found that the legacy data contained some duplicate information.
The data engineer must identify and remove duplicate information from the legacy application data.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) Write a custom extract, transform, and load (ETL) job in Python. Use the DataFrame.drop_duplicates() function by importing the Pandas library to perform data deduplication.
B) Write an AWS Glue extract, transform, and load (ETL) job. Use the FindMatches machine learning (ML) transform to transform the data to perform data deduplication. 
C) Write a custom extract, transform, and load (ETL) job in Python. Import the Python dedupe library. Use the dedupe library to perform data deduplication.
D) Write an AWS Glue extract, transform, and load (ETL) job. Import the Python dedupe library. Use the dedupe library to perform data deduplication. 
Ans: B

31.	A company is building an analytics solution. The solution uses Amazon S3 for data lake storage and Amazon Redshift for a data warehouse. The company wants to use Amazon Redshift Spectrum to query the data that is in Amazon S3.
Which actions will provide the FASTEST queries? (Choose two.)
A) Use gzip compression to compress individual files to sizes that are between 1 GB and 5 GB. 
B) Use a columnar storage file format.
C) Partition the data based on the most common query predicates.
D) Split the data into files that are less than 10 KB. 
E) Use file formats that are not splittable. 
Ans: B, C

32.	A company uses Amazon RDS to store transactional data. The company runs an RDS DB instance in a private subnet. A developer wrote an AWS Lambda function with default settings to insert, update, or delete data in the DB instance.
The developer needs to give the Lambda function the ability to connect to the DB instance privately without using the public internet.
Which combination of steps will meet this requirement with the LEAST operational overhead? (Choose two.)
A) Turn on the public access setting for the DB instance. 
B) Update the security group of the DB instance to allow only Lambda function invocations on the database port.
C) Configure the Lambda function to run in the same subnet that the DB instance uses.
D) Attach the same security group to the Lambda function and the DB instance. Include a self- referencing rule that allows access through the database port.
E) Update the network ACL of the private subnet to include a self-referencing rule that allows access through the database port. 
Ans: B, C

33.	A company has a frontend ReactJS website that uses Amazon API Gateway to invoke REST APIs. The APIs perform the functionality of the website. A data engineer needs to write a Python script that can be occasionally invoked through API Gateway. The code must return results to API Gateway.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?
A) Deploy a custom Python script on an Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) cluster. 
B) Create an AWS Lambda Python function with provisioned concurrency.
C) Deploy a custom Python script that can integrate with API Gateway on Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS). 
D) Create an AWS Lambda function. Ensure that the function is warm by scheduling an Amazon EventBridge rule to invoke the Lambda function every 5 minutes by using mock events. 
Ans: B

34.	A company has a production AWS account that runs company workloads. The company's security team created a security AWS account to store and analyze security logs from the production AWS account. The security logs in the production AWS account are stored in Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
The company needs to use Amazon Kinesis Data Streams to deliver the security logs to the security AWS account.
Which solution will meet these requirements?
A) Create a destination data stream in the production AWS account. In the security AWS account, create an IAM role that has cross-account permissions to Kinesis Data Streams in the production AWS account.
B) Create a destination data stream in the security AWS account. Create an IAM role and a trust policy to grant CloudWatch Logs the permission to put data into the stream. Create a subscription filter in the security AWS account. 
C) Create a destination data stream in the production AWS account. In the production AWS account, create an IAM role that has cross-account permissions to Kinesis Data Streams in the security AWS account.
D) Create a destination data stream in the security AWS account. Create an IAM role and a trust policy to grant CloudWatch Logs the permission to put data into the stream. Create a subscription filter in the production AWS account. 
Ans: D

35.	A company uses Amazon S3 to store semi-structured data in a transactional data lake. Some of the data files are small, but other data files are tens of terabytes.
A data engineer must perform a change data capture (CDC) operation to identify changed data from the data source. The data source sends a full snapshot as a JSON file every day and ingests the changed data into the data lake.
Which solution will capture the changed data MOST cost-effectively?
A) Create an AWS Lambda function to identify the changes between the previous data and the current data. Configure the Lambda function to ingest the changes into the data lake. 
B) Ingest the data into Amazon RDS for MySQL. Use AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS) to write the changed data to the data lake. 
C) Use an open source data lake format to merge the data source with the S3 data lake to insert the new data and update the existing data.
D) Ingest the data into an Amazon Aurora MySQL DB instance that runs Aurora Serverless. Use AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS) to write the changed data to the data lake. 
Ans: C

36.	A data engineer runs Amazon Athena queries on data that is in an Amazon S3 bucket. The Athena queries use AWS Glue Data Catalog as a metadata table.
The data engineer notices that the Athena query plans are experiencing a performance bottleneck. The data engineer determines that the cause of the performance bottleneck is the large number of partitions that are in the S3 bucket. The data engineer must resolve the performance bottleneck and reduce Athena query planning time.
Which solutions will meet these requirements? (Choose two.)
A) Create an AWS Glue partition index. Enable partition filtering. 
B) Bucket the data based on a column that the data have in common in a WHERE clause of the user query. 
C) Use Athena partition projection based on the S3 bucket prefix.
D) Transform the data that is in the S3 bucket to Apache Parquet format. 
E) Use the Amazon EMR S3DistCP utility to combine smaller objects in the S3 bucket into larger objects.  
Ans: B, D

37.	A data engineer must manage the ingestion of real-time streaming data into AWS. The data engineer wants to perform real-time analytics on the incoming streaming data by using time-based aggregations over a window of up to 30 minutes. The data engineer needs a solution that is highly fault tolerant. Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? 
A) Use an AWS Lambda function that includes both the business and the analytics logic to perform time-based aggregations over a window of up to 30 minutes for the data in Amazon Kinesis Data Streams. 
B) Use Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink (previously known as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics) to analyze the data that might occasionally contain duplicates by using multiple types of aggregations.
C) Use an AWS Lambda function that includes both the business and the analytics logic to perform aggregations for a tumbling window of up to 30 minutes, based on the event timestamp. 
D) Use Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink (previously known as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics) to analyze the data by using multiple types of aggregations to perform time-based analytics over a window of up to 30 minutes. 
Ans: D

38.	A company is planning to upgrade its Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) General Purpose SSD storage from gp2 to gp3. The company wants to prevent any interruptions in its Amazon EC2 instances that will cause data loss during the migration to the upgraded storage. 
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? 
A) Create snapshots of the gp2 volumes. Create new gp3 volumes from the snapshots. Attach the new gp3 volumes to the EC2 instances.
B) Create new gp3 volumes. Gradually transfer the data to the new gp3 volumes. When the transfer is complete, mount the new gp3 volumes to the EC2 instances to replace the gp2 volumes.
C) Change the volume type of the existing gp2 volumes to gp3. Enter new values for volume size, IOPS, and throughput.
D) Use AWS DataSync to create new gp3 volumes. Transfer the data from the original gp2 volumes to the new gp3 volumes. 
Ans: C

39.	A company is migrating its database servers from Amazon EC2 instances that run Microsoft SQL Server to Amazon RDS for Microsoft SQL Server DB instances. The company's analytics team must export large data elements every day until the migration is complete. The data elements are the result of SQL joins across multiple tables. The data must be in Apache Parquet format. The analytics team must store the data in Amazon S3.
Which solution will meet these requirements in the MOST operationally efficient way? 
A) Create a view in the EC2 instance-based SQL Server databases that contains the required data elements. Create an AWS Glue job that selects the data directly from the view and transfers the data in Parquet format to an S3 bucket. Schedule the AWS Glue job to run every 
day.
B) Schedule SQL Server Agent to run a daily SQL query that selects the desired data elements from the EC2 instance-based SQL Server databases. Configure the query to direct the output .csv objects to an S3 bucket. Create an S3 event that invokes an AWS Lambda function to transform the output format from .csv to Parquet.
C) Use a SQL query to create a view in the EC2 instance-based SQL Server databases that contains the required data elements. Create and run an AWS Glue crawler to read the view. Create an AWS Glue job that retrieves the data and transfers the data in Parquet format to an S3 bucket. Schedule the AWS Glue job to run every day.
D) Create an AWS Lambda function that queries the EC2 instance-based databases by using Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). Configure the Lambda function to retrieve the required data, transform the data into Parquet format, and transfer the data into an S3 bucket. Use Amazon EventBridge to schedule the Lambda function to run every day. 
Ans: C

40.	A data engineering team is using an Amazon Redshift data warehouse for operational reporting. The team wants to prevent performance issues that might result from long- running queries. A data engineer must choose a system table in Amazon Redshift to record anomalies when a query optimizer identifies conditions that might indicate performance issues. 
Which table views should the data engineer use to meet this requirement? 
A) STL_USAGE_CONTROL
B) STL_ALERT_EVENT_LOG
C) STL_QUERY_METRICS 
D) STL_PLAN_INFO 
Ans: B

41.	A data engineer must ingest a source of structured data that is in .csv format into an Amazon S3 data lake. The .csv files contain 15 columns. Data analysts need to run Amazon Athena queries on one or two columns of the dataset. The data analysts rarely query the entire file. 
Which solution will meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively? 
A) Use an AWS Glue PySpark job to ingest the source data into the data lake in .csv format. 
B) Create an AWS Glue extract, transform, and load (ETL) job to read from the .csv structured data source. Configure the job to ingest the data into the data lake in JSON format. 
C) Use an AWS Glue PySpark job to ingest the source data into the data lake in Apache Avro format. 
D) Create an AWS Glue extract, transform, and load (ETL) job to read from the .csv structured data source. Configure the job to write the data into the data lake in Apache Parquet format 
Ans: D

42.	A company has five offices in different AWS Regions. Each office has its own human resources (HR) department that uses a unique IAM role. The company stores employee records in a data lake that is based on Amazon S3 storage.
A data engineering team needs to limit access to the records. Each HR department should be able to access records for only employees who are within the HR department's Region. 
Which combination of steps should the data engineering team take to meet this requirement with the LEAST operational overhead? (Choose two.) 
A) Use data filters for each Region to register the S3 paths as data locations. 
B) Register the S3 path as an AWS Lake Formation location. 
C) Modify the IAM roles of the HR departments to add a data filter for each department's Region. 
D) Enable fine-grained access control in AWS Lake Formation. Add a data filter for each Region. 
E) Create a separate S3 bucket for each Region. Configure an IAM policy to allow S3 access. Restrict access based on Region. 
Ans: B, D

43.	A company uses AWS Step Functions to orchestrate a data pipeline. The pipeline consists of Amazon EMR jobs that ingest data from data sources and store the data in an Amazon S3 bucket. The pipeline also includes EMR jobs that load the data to Amazon Redshift. 
The company's cloud infrastructure team manually built a Step Functions state machine. The cloud infrastructure team launched an EMR cluster into a VPC to support the EMR jobs. However, the deployed Step Functions state machine is not able to run the EMR jobs. 
Which combination of steps should the company take to identify the reason the Step Functions state machine is not able to run the EMR jobs? (Choose two.) 
A)	Use AWS CloudFormation to automate the Step Functions state machine deployment. Create a step to pause the state machine during the EMR jobs that fail. Configure the step to wait for a human user to send approval through an email message. Include details of the EMR task in the email message for further analysis. 
B)	Verify that the Step Functions state machine code has all IAM permissions that are necessary to create and run the EMR jobs. Verify that the Step Functions state machine code also includes IAM permissions to access the Amazon S3 buckets that the EMR jobs use. Use Access Analyzer for S3 to check the S3 access properties. 
C)	Check for entries in Amazon CloudWatch for the newly created EMR cluster. Change the AWS Step Functions state machine code to use Amazon EMR on EKS. Change the IAM access policies and the security group configuration for the Step Functions state machine code to reflect inclusion of Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS). 
D)	 Query the flow logs for the VPC. Determine whether the traffic that originates from the EMR cluster can successfully reach the data providers. Determine whether any security group that might be attached to the Amazon EMR cluster allows connections to the data source servers on the informed ports. 
E)	 Check the retry scenarios that the company configured for the EMR jobs. Increase the number of seconds in the interval between each EMR task. Validate that each fallback state has the appropriate catch for each decision state. Configure an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic to store the error message
Ans: B, D

44.	A company is developing an application that runs on Amazon EC2 instances. Currently, the data that the application generates is temporary. However, the company needs to persist the data, even if the EC2 instances are terminated.
A data engineer must launch new EC2 instances from an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and configure the instances to preserve the data. 
Which solution will meet this requirement? 
A) Launch new EC2 instances by using an AMI that is backed by an EC2 instance store volume that contains the application data. Apply the default settings to the EC2 instances. (Correct Answer)
B) Launch new EC2 instances by using an AMI that is backed by a root Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume that contains the application data. Apply the default settings to the EC2 instances. 
C) Launch new EC2 instances by using an AMI that is backed by an EC2 instance store volume. Attach an Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume to contain the application data. Apply the default settings to the EC2 instances.
D) Launch new EC2 instances by using an AMI that is backed by an Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume. Attach an additional EC2 instance store volume to contain the application data. Apply the default settings to the EC2 instances. 
Ans: B

45.	A company uses Amazon Athena to run SQL queries for extract, transform, and load (ETL) tasks by using Create Table As Select (CTAS). The company must use Apache Spark instead of SQL to generate analytics.
Which solution will give the company the ability to use Spark to access Athena? 
A) Athena query settings
B) Athena workgroup
C) Athena data source
D) Athena query editor 
Ans: B

46.	A company needs to partition the Amazon S3 storage that the company uses for a data lake. The partitioning will use a path of the S3 object keys in the following format: s3://bucket/prefix/year=2023/month=01/day=01.
A data engineer must ensure that the AWS Glue Data Catalog synchronizes with the S3 storage when the company adds new partitions to the bucket. Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST latency? 
A) Schedule an AWS Glue crawler to run every morning. 
B) Manually run the AWS Glue CreatePartition API twice each day. 
C) Use code that writes data to Amazon S3 to invoke the Boto3 AWS Glue create_partition API call.
D) Run the MSCK REPAIR TABLE command from the AWS Glue console. 
Ans: C

47.	A media company uses software as a service (SaaS) applications to gather data by using third-party tools. The company needs to store the data in an Amazon S3 bucket. The company will use Amazon Redshift to perform analytics based on the data. 
Which AWS service or feature will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? 
A)	Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK)
B)	 Amazon AppFlow
C)	AWS Glue Data Catalog 
D)	Amazon Kinesis 
Ans: B

48.	A data engineer is using Amazon Athena to analyze sales data that is in Amazon S3. The data engineer writes a query to retrieve sales amounts for 2023 for several products from a table named sales_data. However, the query does not return results for all of the products that are in the sales_data table. The data engineer needs to troubleshoot the query to resolve the issue. 
The data engineer's original query is as follows: SELECT product_name, sum(sales_amount) 
FROM sales_data - WHERE year = 2023 - 
GROUP BY product_name -
How should the data engineer modify the Athena query to meet these requirements? 
A)	Replace sum(sales_amount) with count(*) for the aggregation.
B)	 Change WHERE year = 2023 to WHERE extract(year FROM sales_data) = 2023.
C)	 Add HAVING sum(sales_amount) > 0 after the GROUP BY clause.
D)	Remove the GROUP BY clause. 
Ans: B

49.	A data engineer has a one-time task to read data from objects that are in Apache Parquet format in an Amazon S3 bucket. The data engineer needs to query only one column of the data.
Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead? 
A) Configure an AWS Lambda function to load data from the S3 bucket into a pandas dataframe. Write a SQL SELECT statement on the dataframe to query the required column. 
B) Use S3 Select to write a SQL SELECT statement to retrieve the required column from the S3 objects.
C) Prepare an AWS Glue DataBrew project to consume the S3 objects and to query the required column.
D) Run an AWS Glue crawler on the S3 objects. Use a SQL SELECT statement in Amazon Athena to query the required column. 
Ans: B

50.	A company uses Amazon Redshift for its data warehouse. The company must automate refresh schedules for Amazon Redshift materialized views.
Which solution will meet this requirement with the LEAST effort? 
A) Use Apache Airflow to refresh the materialized views. 
B) Use an AWS Lambda user-defined function (UDF) within Amazon Redshift to refresh the materialized views. 
C) Use the query editor v2 in Amazon Redshift to refresh the materialized views.
D) Use an AWS Glue workflow to refresh the materialized views. 
Ans: B







































